=head1 NAME

Template::TT3::Manual - TT3 User Manual

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This is the main user manual for TT3.  Both the software and the manual are
works in progress so don't expect too much at this time.

=head1 TABLE OF CONTENTS

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Introduction> gives a general introduction to TT3.
It tells you how to download, install and start using it.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Compatibility> talks about backwards compatibility
with version 2 of the Template Toolkit.  If you've got any applications,
web sites or other code using TT2 then you should read this.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Templates> will (when it's finished) provide a 
general introduction to what template processing it, what templates look 
like, explain some of the terminology and so on.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Tags> will (when it's finished) explain about the
different tags that can be embedded in TT3 templates, the chomping options,
and how you can go about customising, adding or replacing tags, or
building your own tag sets from scratch.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Expressions> will (when it's written) talk about
the expression language at the heart of TT3.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Data> will (when it's written and once I've thought
of a better name for it) show all the different ways you can access and 
manipulate data.  Variables, dotops, vmethods and so on.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Operators> will (when it's written) list all the 
operators implemented by TT3.

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Commands> will (when it's written) list all the 
command keywords implemented by TT3.  e.g. if, for, fill, etc

L<Template::TT3::Manual::Controls> will (when it's written) list all the 
compile-time control keywords implemented by TT3.  e.g. TAGS, COMMANDS, etc.


