=head1 NAME

Template::TT3::Developer::Elements - compiled template elements

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This is a rough draft of the developer documentation that will describe how
compiled templates are represented using an element tree.

=head1 ELEMENT MODULES

The hierarchy of elements is as follows:

    Element
        Literal
            Text
            Padding
            String
                Squote
                Dquote
        Whitespace
            Comment
        Delimiter
            TagEnd
        Terminator
            End

There are more... but I haven't cleaned those up yet


=head2 Literal Elements

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Literal

Base class for all elements that represent a chunk of literal text.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Text

An element representing a plain text token.  

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Padding

An element representing a synthesised padding token.  e.g. the single space
added around a tag by the C<=> pre/post chomp flags.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::String

A base class element for quoted strings.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Squote

A subclass of L<Template::TT3::Element::String> for 'single quoted' strings.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Dquote

A subclass of L<Template::TT3::Element::String> for "double quoted" strings.



=head2 Whitespace and Other Ignorable Elements

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Whitespace

An element representing an ignorable whitespace token.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Comment

A subclass of L<Template::TT3::Element::Whitespace> for ignorable comments.


=head2 Separator, Delimiter and Terminator Tokens

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Delimiter

An element representing am expression delimiter.  This includes the semi-colon,
C<;>, and the end of tag tokens (e.g. C<%]>, C<?]>, etc) represented by the
L<Template::TT3::Element::TagEnd> subclass.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::TagEnd

A thin subclass of L<Template::TT3::Element::Delimiter> for representing
end of tag tokens (e.g. C<%]>, C<?]>, etc)

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Terminator

An element representing a terminator token.  e.g. the C<end> keyword and
the C<]>, C<}> and C<)> tokens used to terminate lists, hash arrays and
parameter lists.

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::End

A thin subclass of L<Template::TT3::Element::Terminator> which acts like a
keyword when presented via a view (e.g. for the purpose of syntax
highlighting).

=head3 Template::TT3::Element::Eof

A synthesised  element used to represent the end of file.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley L<http://wardley.org/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 1996-2009 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
