=head1 NAME

Template::TT3::Developer::Factories - modules that load modules in TT3

=head1 INTRODUCTION

This is a rough draft of the developer documentation that will describe the 
way that factories are used in TT3 to load other modules.

=head1 The Players

There are a number of modules in TT3 whose sole responsibility is to locate
and load modules and instantiate objects of the corresponding classes.
They are all called I<factory modules>.

=head2 Template::TT2::Engines

Responsible for loading C<Template::TT2::Engine::*> engine modules.

=head2 Template::TT2::Dialects

Responsible for loading C<Template::TT2::Dialect::*> dialect modules.

=head2 Template::TT2::Services

Responsible for loading C<Template::TT2::Service::*> services modules.

=head2 TODO: ...and a whole bunch more

=head1 Supporting Roles

The factories listed above are in most cases very thin wrappers around
a common factory base classes.

=head2 Badger::Factory

This is where it all begins. You should go and read the documentation for
that. Be aware that B::F has grown organically over the last 2 years and it's
ready for a good cleanup. In an earlier implementation of TT3 I had 3 factory
base classes of progressive complexity: one that just loaded modules, one that
loaded modules and created objects, and another that also cached the object.
I thought I was being clever by merging them all into one in the form of 
Badger::Factory, but now I think it may have been a mistake.  I've hit a few
complexity barriers and "WTF?!?!" moments where I've got lost in what B::F
is doing.  That's a sure sign that it needs re-thinking.  So expect some 
change here, but it'll be as backward-compatible as possible.

=head2 Template::TT3::Factory

This is our thin subclass of L<Badger::Factory> where we customise a few
details that are specific to TT3.

=head2 Badger::Factory::Class

This is a subclass of L<Badger::Class> specialised for creating factory 
classes.  You should go and skim the documentation for L<Badger::Class>
and then take a look over L<Badger::Factory::Class> at this point.

=head2 Template::TT3::Factory::Class

This is a thin subclass of L<Badger::Factory::Class> that uses our 
L<Template::TT3::Factory> as the base class for our factories instead
of the default L<Badger::Factory>.  This allows us to inject our custom
TT3 behaviours into our factory classes.

=head1 AUTHOR

Andy Wardley L<http://wardley.org/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 1996-2009 Andy Wardley.  All Rights Reserved.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut

# Local Variables:
# mode: perl
# perl-indent-level: 4
# indent-tabs-mode: nil
# End:
#
# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4:
